---
title: "Enabling Exploratory Large Scale Graph Analytics through Arkouda"
date: 2021-09-18T15:34:30-04:00
categories:
  - Publications
tags:
  - exploratory graph analysis
  - parallel graph algorithms
  - breadth-first search
  - high-performance computing
---
#### Authors
<p align="justify">
Zhihui Du, Oliver Alvarado Rodriguez, and David A. Bader
</p>

#### Abstract
<p align="justify">
Exploratory graph analytics helps maximize the
informational value from a graph. However, increasing graph
sizes makes it impossible for existing popular exploratory data
analysis tools to handle dozens of terabytes or even larger data
sets in the memory of a common laptop/personal computer.
Arkouda is a framework under early development that brings
together the productivity of Python at the user-side with the
high performance of Chapel at the server-side. In this paper,
we present our initial work on overcoming the memory limit
and high-performance computing coding roadblocks for highlevel Python users to perform large graph analyses. Based
on a simple and succinct graph data structure, a high-level
Chapel-based graph algorithm, Breadth-First Search (BFS), is
presented to show the scalable and parallel graph algorithm
development method in a productive way through Arkouda.
The reverse Cuthill – McKee (RCM) algorithm is implemented
in Chapel to relabel the vertices of a graph as a preprocessing
step to improve the performance of BFS and one low-level BFS
algorithm is also developed to compare with the performance
of high-level method. Both synthetic graphs and typical graph
benchmarks are used to evaluate the performance of the provided
graph algorithms. The experimental results show that, based on
the proposed high-level algorithm framework, the performance
of BFS can be improved significantly and easily by simply
selecting suitable Chapel high-level data structures and parallel
constructs. Our code is open source and available from GitHub.
</p>
[Github Repository](https://github.com/Bader-Research/arkouda)



