---
title: "Extended Abstract: K-Truss Implementation in Arkouda"
date: 2021-09-18T15:34:30-04:00
categories:
  - Publications
tags:
  - large scale string sets
  - arkouda
  - k-truss
---
#### Authors:
<p align="justify">
Joseph Patchett, Zhihui Du, David Bader 
</p>

#### Abstract
<p align="justify">
The k-Truss algorithm is the decomposition of a graph
into cliques where every edge is incident to k − 2 triangles.
The results of this decomposition have implications in national security, social media, and community identification.
These results can be used to interpret how connected a
community is e.g. how interconnected a group on social
media is. Higher values of k imply a higher degree of
connection. The maximal k-truss is the subgraph for which
there is the largest k. For certain graphs like those in social
media the maximal k-Truss is not informative, therefore our
algorithm allows different choices of k to tailor to the needs
of each use case.
Our implementation of the k-Truss algorithm in Arkouda
finds all maximal k-trusses in a graph. Arkouda [1], [2] is
an open-source framework for large scale graph analytics
that allows users to access a powerful server driven backend
from their own personal computer. Real-world data and the
graphs resulting from that data have become increasingly
complex. Arkouda utilizes a powerful Chapel [3] back-end,
ZeroMQ [4] for message communication, and a Python
[5] front-end for users. Computations that require complex
calculations and large networks will be handled on the backend abstracted from the user. Our major contribution is
extending the abilities of Arkouda and k-truss is a typical
graph algorithm for such a framework.
</p>



